README.md, before:

# BPFtrace

BPFtrace is a high-level tracing language for Linux enhanced Berkeley Packet Filter (eBPF) available in recent Linux kernels (4.x). BPFtrace uses LLVM as a backend to compile scripts to BPF-bytecode and makes use of [BCC](https://github.com/iovisor/bcc) for interacting with the Linux BPF system, as well as existing Linux tracing capabilities: kernel dynamic tracing (kprobes), user-level dynamic tracing (uprobes), and tracepoints. The BPFtrace language is inspired by awk and C, and predecessor tracers such as DTrace and SystemTap. BPFtrace was created by [Alastair Robertson](https://github.com/ajor).

To learn more about BPFtrace, see the [Reference Guide](docs/reference_guide.md) and [One-Liner Tutorial](docs/tutorial_one_liners.md).

## Install

For build and install instructions, see [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md).

## Examples

Count system calls using tracepoints:
```
# bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_* { @[probe] = count(); }'
Attaching 320 probes...
^C

...
@[tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_access]: 3291
@[tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_close]: 3897
@[tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_newstat]: 4268
@[tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_open]: 4609
@[tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_mmap]: 4781
```

Produce a histogram of time (in nanoseconds) spent in the `read()` system call:
```
// read.bt file
tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_read
{
  @start[tid] = nsecs;
}

tracepoint:syscalls:sys_exit_read / @start[tid] /
{
  @times = hist(nsecs - @start[tid]);
  delete(@start[tid]);
}
```
```
# bpftrace read.bt
Attaching 2 probes...
^C

@times:
[256, 512)           326 |@                                                   |
[512, 1k)           7715 |@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@                          |
[1k, 2k)           15306 |@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@|
[2k, 4k)             609 |@@                                                  |
[4k, 8k)             611 |@@                                                  |
[8k, 16k)            438 |@                                                   |
[16k, 32k)            59 |                                                    |
[32k, 64k)            36 |                                                    |
[64k, 128k)            5 |                                                    |
```

Print process name and paths for file opens, using kprobes (kernel dynamic tracing) of do_sys_open():
```
# bpftrace -e 'kprobe:do_sys_open { printf("%s: %s\n", comm, str(arg1)) }'
Attaching 1 probe...
git: .git/objects/da
git: .git/objects/pack
git: /etc/localtime
systemd-journal: /var/log/journal/72d0774c88dc4943ae3d34ac356125dd
DNS Res~ver #15: /etc/hosts
^C
```

CPU profiling, sampling kernel stacks at 99 Hertz:
```
# bpftrace -e 'profile:hz:99 { @[stack] = count() }'
Attaching 1 probe...
^C

...
@[
    queue_work_on+41
    tty_flip_buffer_push+43
    pty_write+83
    n_tty_write+434
    tty_write+444
    __vfs_write+55
    vfs_write+177
    sys_write+85
    entry_SYSCALL_64_fastpath+26
]: 97
@[
    cpuidle_enter_state+299
    cpuidle_enter+23
    call_cpuidle+35
    do_idle+394
    cpu_startup_entry+113
    rest_init+132
    start_kernel+1083
    x86_64_start_reservations+41
    x86_64_start_kernel+323
    verify_cpu+0
]: 150
```

## One-Liners

The following one-liners demonstrate different capabilities:

```
# Files opened by process
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_open { printf("%s %s\n", comm, str(args->filename)); }'

# Syscall count by program
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:raw_syscalls:sys_enter { @[comm] = count(); }'

# Read bytes by process:
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:syscalls:sys_exit_read /args->ret/ { @[comm] = sum(args->ret); }'

# Read size distribution by process:
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:syscalls:sys_exit_read { @[comm] = hist(args->ret); }'

# Show per-second syscall rates:
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:raw_syscalls:sys_enter { @ = count(); } interval:s:1 { print(@); clear(@); }'

# Trace disk size by process
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:block:block_rq_issue { printf("%d %s %d\n", pid, comm, args->bytes); }'

# Count page faults by process
bpftrace -e 'software:faults:1 { @[comm] = count(); }'

# Count LLC cache misses by process name and PID (uses PMCs):
bpftrace -e 'hardware:cache-misses:1000000 { @[comm, pid] = count(); }'

# Profile user-level stacks at 99 Hertz, for PID 189:
bpftrace -e 'profile:hz:99 /pid == 189/ { @[ustack] = count(); }'

# Files opened, for processes in the root cgroup-v2
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_openat /cgroup == cgroupid("/sys/fs/cgroup/unified/mycg")/ { printf("%s\n", str(args->filename)); }'
```

## Tools

bpftrace contains various tools, which also serve as examples of programming in the bpftrace language.

- tools/[bashreadline.bt](tools/bashreadline.bt): Print entered bash commands system wide. [Examples](tools/bashreadline_example.txt).
- tools/[biolatency.bt](tools/biolatency.bt): Block I/O latency as a histogram. [Examples](tools/biolatency_example.txt).
- tools/[biosnoop.bt](tools/biosnoop.bt): Block I/O tracing tool, showing per I/O latency. [Examples](tools/biosnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[bitesize.bt](tools/bitesize.bt): Show disk I/O size as a histogram. [Examples](tools/bitesize_example.txt).
- tools/[capable.bt](tools/capable.bt): Trace security capability checks. [Examples](tools/capable_example.txt).
- tools/[cpuwalk.bt](tools/cpuwalk.bt): Sample which CPUs are executing processes. [Examples](tools/cpuwalk_example.txt).
- tools/[dcsnoop.bt](tools/dcsnoop.bt): Trace directory entry cache (dcache) lookups. [Examples](tools/dcsnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[execsnoop.bt](tools/execsnoop.bt): Trace new processes via exec() syscalls. [Examples](tools/execsnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[gethostlatency.bt](tools/gethostlatency.bt): Show latency for getaddrinfo/gethostbyname[2] calls. [Examples](tools/gethostlatency_example.txt).
- tools/[killsnoop.bt](tools/killsnoop.bt): Trace signals issued by the kill() syscall. [Examples](tools/killsnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[loads.bt](tools/loads.bt): Print load averages. [Examples](tools/loads_example.txt).
- tools/[mdflush.bt](tools/mdflush.bt): Trace md flush events. [Examples](tools/mdflush_example.txt).
- tools/[opensnoop.bt](tools/loads.bt): Trace open() syscalls showing filenames. [Examples](tools/opensnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[oomkill.bt](tools/oomkill.bt): Trace OOM killer. [Examples](tools/oomkill_example.txt).
- tools/[pidpersec.bt](tools/pidpersec.bt): Count new processes (via fork). [Examples](tools/pidpersec_example.txt).
- tools/[runqlat.bt](tools/runqlat.bt): CPU scheduler run queue latency as a histogram. [Examples](tools/runqlat_example.txt).
- tools/[runqlen.bt](tools/runqlen.bt): CPU scheduler run queue length as a histogram. [Examples](tools/runqlen_example.txt).
- tools/[statsnoop.bt](tools/statsnoop.bt): Trace stat() syscalls for general debugging. [Examples](tools/statsnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[syncsnoop.bt](tools/syncsnoop.bt): Trace sync() variety of syscalls. [Examples](tools/syncsnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[syscount.bt](tools/syscount.bt): Count system calls. [Examples](tools/syscount_example.txt).
- tools/[tcpaccept](tools/tcpaccept.bt): Trace TCP passive connections (accept()). [Examples](tools/tcpaccept_example.txt).
- tools/[tcpconnect](tools/tcpconnect.bt): Trace TCP active connections (connect()). [Examples](tools/tcpconnect_example.txt).
- tools/[tcpdrop](tools/tcpdrop.bt): Trace kernel-based TCP packet drops with details. [Examples](tools/tcpdrop_example.txt).
- tools/[tcpretrans](tools/tcpretrans.bt): Trace TCP retransmits. [Examples](tools/tcpretrans_example.txt).
- tools/[vfscount.bt](tools/vfscount.bt): Count VFS calls. [Examples](tools/vfscount_example.txt).
- tools/[vfsstat.bt](tools/vfsstat.bt): Count some VFS calls, with per-second summaries. [Examples](tools/vfsstat_example.txt).
- tools/[writeback.bt](tools/writeback.bt): Trace file system writeback events with details. [Examples](tools/writeback_example.txt).
- tools/[xfsdist.bt](tools/xfsdist.bt): Summarize XFS operation latency distribution as a histogram. [Examples](tools/xfsdist_example.txt).

For more eBPF observability tools, see [bcc tools](https://github.com/iovisor/bcc#tools).

## Probe types
<center><a href="images/bpftrace_probes_2018.png"><img src="images/bpftrace_probes_2018.png" border=0 width=700></a></center>

### kprobes
Attach a BPFtrace script to a kernel function, to be executed when that function is called:

`kprobe:vfs_read { ... }`

### uprobes
Attach script to a userland function:

`uprobe:/bin/bash:readline { ... }`

### tracepoints
Attach script to a statically defined tracepoint in the kernel:

`tracepoint:sched:sched_switch { ... }`

Tracepoints are guaranteed to be stable between kernel versions, unlike kprobes.

### software
Attach script to kernel software events, executing once every provided count or use a default:

`software:faults:100`
`software:faults:`

### hardware
Attach script to hardware events (PMCs), executing once every provided count or use a default:

`hardware:cache-references:1000000`
`hardware:cache-references:`

### profile
Run the script on all CPUs at specified time intervals:

`profile:hz:99 { ... }`

`profile:s:1 { ... }`

`profile:ms:20 { ... }`

`profile:us:1500 { ... }`

### interval
Run the script once per interval, for printing interval output:

`interval:s:1 { ... }`

`interval:ms:20 { ... }`

### Multiple attachment points
A single probe can be attached to multiple events:

`kprobe:vfs_read,kprobe:vfs_write { ... }`

### Wildcards
Some probe types allow wildcards to be used when attaching a probe:

`uprobe:/bin/bash:read* { ... }`

`kprobe:vfs_* { ... }`

### Predicates
Define conditions for which a probe should be executed:

`kprobe:sys_open / uid == 0 / { ... }`

## Builtins
The following variables and functions are available for use in bpftrace scripts:

Variables:
- `pid` - Process ID (kernel tgid)
- `tid` - Thread ID (kernel pid)
- `cgroup` - Cgroup ID of the current process
- `uid` - User ID
- `gid` - Group ID
- `nsecs` - Nanosecond timestamp
- `elapsed` - Nanosecond timestamp since bpftrace initialization
- `cpu` - Processor ID
- `comm` - Process name
- `stack` - Kernel stack trace
- `ustack` - User stack trace
- `arg0`, `arg1`, ... etc. - Arguments to the function being traced
- `retval` - Return value from function being traced
- `func` - Name of the function currently being traced
- `probe` - Full name of the probe
- `curtask` - Current task_struct as a u64
- `rand` - Random number of type u32
- `$1`, `$2`, ... etc. - Positional parameters to the bpftrace program

Functions:
- `hist(int n)` - Produce a log2 histogram of values of `n`
- `lhist(int n, int min, int max, int step)` - Produce a linear histogram of values of `n`
- `count()` - Count the number of times this function is called
- `sum(int n)` - Sum this value
- `min(int n)` - Record the minimum value seen
- `max(int n)` - Record the maximum value seen
- `avg(int n)` - Average this value
- `stats(int n)` - Return the count, average, and total for this value
- `delete(@x)` - Delete the map element passed in as an argument
- `str(char *s [, int length])` - Returns the string pointed to by `s`
- `printf(char *fmt, ...)` - Print formatted to stdout
- `print(@x[, int top [, int div]])` - Print a map, with optional top entry count and divisor
- `clear(@x)` - Delete all key/values from a map
- `sym(void *p)` - Resolve kernel address
- `usym(void *p)` - Resolve user space address
- `ntop(int af, int addr)` - Resolve ip address
- `kaddr(char *name)` - Resolve kernel symbol name
- `uaddr(char *name)` - Resolve user space symbol name
- `reg(char *name)` - Returns the value stored in the named register
- `join(char *arr[])` - Prints the string array
- `time(char *fmt)` - Print the current time
- `system(char *fmt)` - Execute shell command
- `exit()` - Quit bpftrace

See the [Reference Guide](docs/reference_guide.md) for more detail.

## Internals

<center><a href="images/bpftrace_internals_2018.png"><img src="images/bpftrace_internals_2018.png" border=0 width=700></a></center>

bpftrace employs various techniques for efficiency, minimizing the instrumentation overhead. Summary statistics are stored in kernel BPF maps, which are asynchronously copied from kernel to user-space, only when needed. Other data, and asynchronous actions, are passed from kernel to user-space via the perf output buffer.

## License

Copyright 2019 Alastair Robertson

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Standardise documentation on the bpftrace name

README.md, after:

# bpftrace

bpftrace is a high-level tracing language for Linux enhanced Berkeley Packet Filter (eBPF) available in recent Linux kernels (4.x). bpftrace uses LLVM as a backend to compile scripts to BPF-bytecode and makes use of [BCC](https://github.com/iovisor/bcc) for interacting with the Linux BPF system, as well as existing Linux tracing capabilities: kernel dynamic tracing (kprobes), user-level dynamic tracing (uprobes), and tracepoints. The bpftrace language is inspired by awk and C, and predecessor tracers such as DTrace and SystemTap. bpftrace was created by [Alastair Robertson](https://github.com/ajor).

To learn more about bpftrace, see the [Reference Guide](docs/reference_guide.md) and [One-Liner Tutorial](docs/tutorial_one_liners.md).

## Install

For build and install instructions, see [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md).

## Examples

Count system calls using tracepoints:
```
# bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_* { @[probe] = count(); }'
Attaching 320 probes...
^C

...
@[tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_access]: 3291
@[tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_close]: 3897
@[tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_newstat]: 4268
@[tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_open]: 4609
@[tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_mmap]: 4781
```

Produce a histogram of time (in nanoseconds) spent in the `read()` system call:
```
// read.bt file
tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_read
{
  @start[tid] = nsecs;
}

tracepoint:syscalls:sys_exit_read / @start[tid] /
{
  @times = hist(nsecs - @start[tid]);
  delete(@start[tid]);
}
```
```
# bpftrace read.bt
Attaching 2 probes...
^C

@times:
[256, 512)           326 |@                                                   |
[512, 1k)           7715 |@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@                          |
[1k, 2k)           15306 |@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@|
[2k, 4k)             609 |@@                                                  |
[4k, 8k)             611 |@@                                                  |
[8k, 16k)            438 |@                                                   |
[16k, 32k)            59 |                                                    |
[32k, 64k)            36 |                                                    |
[64k, 128k)            5 |                                                    |
```

Print process name and paths for file opens, using kprobes (kernel dynamic tracing) of do_sys_open():
```
# bpftrace -e 'kprobe:do_sys_open { printf("%s: %s\n", comm, str(arg1)) }'
Attaching 1 probe...
git: .git/objects/da
git: .git/objects/pack
git: /etc/localtime
systemd-journal: /var/log/journal/72d0774c88dc4943ae3d34ac356125dd
DNS Res~ver #15: /etc/hosts
^C
```

CPU profiling, sampling kernel stacks at 99 Hertz:
```
# bpftrace -e 'profile:hz:99 { @[stack] = count() }'
Attaching 1 probe...
^C

...
@[
    queue_work_on+41
    tty_flip_buffer_push+43
    pty_write+83
    n_tty_write+434
    tty_write+444
    __vfs_write+55
    vfs_write+177
    sys_write+85
    entry_SYSCALL_64_fastpath+26
]: 97
@[
    cpuidle_enter_state+299
    cpuidle_enter+23
    call_cpuidle+35
    do_idle+394
    cpu_startup_entry+113
    rest_init+132
    start_kernel+1083
    x86_64_start_reservations+41
    x86_64_start_kernel+323
    verify_cpu+0
]: 150
```

## One-Liners

The following one-liners demonstrate different capabilities:

```
# Files opened by process
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_open { printf("%s %s\n", comm, str(args->filename)); }'

# Syscall count by program
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:raw_syscalls:sys_enter { @[comm] = count(); }'

# Read bytes by process:
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:syscalls:sys_exit_read /args->ret/ { @[comm] = sum(args->ret); }'

# Read size distribution by process:
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:syscalls:sys_exit_read { @[comm] = hist(args->ret); }'

# Show per-second syscall rates:
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:raw_syscalls:sys_enter { @ = count(); } interval:s:1 { print(@); clear(@); }'

# Trace disk size by process
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:block:block_rq_issue { printf("%d %s %d\n", pid, comm, args->bytes); }'

# Count page faults by process
bpftrace -e 'software:faults:1 { @[comm] = count(); }'

# Count LLC cache misses by process name and PID (uses PMCs):
bpftrace -e 'hardware:cache-misses:1000000 { @[comm, pid] = count(); }'

# Profile user-level stacks at 99 Hertz, for PID 189:
bpftrace -e 'profile:hz:99 /pid == 189/ { @[ustack] = count(); }'

# Files opened, for processes in the root cgroup-v2
bpftrace -e 'tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_openat /cgroup == cgroupid("/sys/fs/cgroup/unified/mycg")/ { printf("%s\n", str(args->filename)); }'
```

## Tools

bpftrace contains various tools, which also serve as examples of programming in the bpftrace language.

- tools/[bashreadline.bt](tools/bashreadline.bt): Print entered bash commands system wide. [Examples](tools/bashreadline_example.txt).
- tools/[biolatency.bt](tools/biolatency.bt): Block I/O latency as a histogram. [Examples](tools/biolatency_example.txt).
- tools/[biosnoop.bt](tools/biosnoop.bt): Block I/O tracing tool, showing per I/O latency. [Examples](tools/biosnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[bitesize.bt](tools/bitesize.bt): Show disk I/O size as a histogram. [Examples](tools/bitesize_example.txt).
- tools/[capable.bt](tools/capable.bt): Trace security capability checks. [Examples](tools/capable_example.txt).
- tools/[cpuwalk.bt](tools/cpuwalk.bt): Sample which CPUs are executing processes. [Examples](tools/cpuwalk_example.txt).
- tools/[dcsnoop.bt](tools/dcsnoop.bt): Trace directory entry cache (dcache) lookups. [Examples](tools/dcsnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[execsnoop.bt](tools/execsnoop.bt): Trace new processes via exec() syscalls. [Examples](tools/execsnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[gethostlatency.bt](tools/gethostlatency.bt): Show latency for getaddrinfo/gethostbyname[2] calls. [Examples](tools/gethostlatency_example.txt).
- tools/[killsnoop.bt](tools/killsnoop.bt): Trace signals issued by the kill() syscall. [Examples](tools/killsnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[loads.bt](tools/loads.bt): Print load averages. [Examples](tools/loads_example.txt).
- tools/[mdflush.bt](tools/mdflush.bt): Trace md flush events. [Examples](tools/mdflush_example.txt).
- tools/[opensnoop.bt](tools/loads.bt): Trace open() syscalls showing filenames. [Examples](tools/opensnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[oomkill.bt](tools/oomkill.bt): Trace OOM killer. [Examples](tools/oomkill_example.txt).
- tools/[pidpersec.bt](tools/pidpersec.bt): Count new processes (via fork). [Examples](tools/pidpersec_example.txt).
- tools/[runqlat.bt](tools/runqlat.bt): CPU scheduler run queue latency as a histogram. [Examples](tools/runqlat_example.txt).
- tools/[runqlen.bt](tools/runqlen.bt): CPU scheduler run queue length as a histogram. [Examples](tools/runqlen_example.txt).
- tools/[statsnoop.bt](tools/statsnoop.bt): Trace stat() syscalls for general debugging. [Examples](tools/statsnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[syncsnoop.bt](tools/syncsnoop.bt): Trace sync() variety of syscalls. [Examples](tools/syncsnoop_example.txt).
- tools/[syscount.bt](tools/syscount.bt): Count system calls. [Examples](tools/syscount_example.txt).
- tools/[tcpaccept](tools/tcpaccept.bt): Trace TCP passive connections (accept()). [Examples](tools/tcpaccept_example.txt).
- tools/[tcpconnect](tools/tcpconnect.bt): Trace TCP active connections (connect()). [Examples](tools/tcpconnect_example.txt).
- tools/[tcpdrop](tools/tcpdrop.bt): Trace kernel-based TCP packet drops with details. [Examples](tools/tcpdrop_example.txt).
- tools/[tcpretrans](tools/tcpretrans.bt): Trace TCP retransmits. [Examples](tools/tcpretrans_example.txt).
- tools/[vfscount.bt](tools/vfscount.bt): Count VFS calls. [Examples](tools/vfscount_example.txt).
- tools/[vfsstat.bt](tools/vfsstat.bt): Count some VFS calls, with per-second summaries. [Examples](tools/vfsstat_example.txt).
- tools/[writeback.bt](tools/writeback.bt): Trace file system writeback events with details. [Examples](tools/writeback_example.txt).
- tools/[xfsdist.bt](tools/xfsdist.bt): Summarize XFS operation latency distribution as a histogram. [Examples](tools/xfsdist_example.txt).

For more eBPF observability tools, see [bcc tools](https://github.com/iovisor/bcc#tools).

## Probe types
<center><a href="images/bpftrace_probes_2018.png"><img src="images/bpftrace_probes_2018.png" border=0 width=700></a></center>

### kprobes
Attach a bpftrace script to a kernel function, to be executed when that function is called:

`kprobe:vfs_read { ... }`

### uprobes
Attach script to a userland function:

`uprobe:/bin/bash:readline { ... }`

### tracepoints
Attach script to a statically defined tracepoint in the kernel:

`tracepoint:sched:sched_switch { ... }`

Tracepoints are guaranteed to be stable between kernel versions, unlike kprobes.

### software
Attach script to kernel software events, executing once every provided count or use a default:

`software:faults:100`
`software:faults:`

### hardware
Attach script to hardware events (PMCs), executing once every provided count or use a default:

`hardware:cache-references:1000000`
`hardware:cache-references:`

### profile
Run the script on all CPUs at specified time intervals:

`profile:hz:99 { ... }`

`profile:s:1 { ... }`

`profile:ms:20 { ... }`

`profile:us:1500 { ... }`

### interval
Run the script once per interval, for printing interval output:

`interval:s:1 { ... }`

`interval:ms:20 { ... }`

### Multiple attachment points
A single probe can be attached to multiple events:

`kprobe:vfs_read,kprobe:vfs_write { ... }`

### Wildcards
Some probe types allow wildcards to be used when attaching a probe:

`uprobe:/bin/bash:read* { ... }`

`kprobe:vfs_* { ... }`

### Predicates
Define conditions for which a probe should be executed:

`kprobe:sys_open / uid == 0 / { ... }`

## Builtins
The following variables and functions are available for use in bpftrace scripts:

Variables:
- `pid` - Process ID (kernel tgid)
- `tid` - Thread ID (kernel pid)
- `cgroup` - Cgroup ID of the current process
- `uid` - User ID
- `gid` - Group ID
- `nsecs` - Nanosecond timestamp
- `elapsed` - Nanosecond timestamp since bpftrace initialization
- `cpu` - Processor ID
- `comm` - Process name
- `stack` - Kernel stack trace
- `ustack` - User stack trace
- `arg0`, `arg1`, ... etc. - Arguments to the function being traced
- `retval` - Return value from function being traced
- `func` - Name of the function currently being traced
- `probe` - Full name of the probe
- `curtask` - Current task_struct as a u64
- `rand` - Random number of type u32
- `$1`, `$2`, ... etc. - Positional parameters to the bpftrace program

Functions:
- `hist(int n)` - Produce a log2 histogram of values of `n`
- `lhist(int n, int min, int max, int step)` - Produce a linear histogram of values of `n`
- `count()` - Count the number of times this function is called
- `sum(int n)` - Sum this value
- `min(int n)` - Record the minimum value seen
- `max(int n)` - Record the maximum value seen
- `avg(int n)` - Average this value
- `stats(int n)` - Return the count, average, and total for this value
- `delete(@x)` - Delete the map element passed in as an argument
- `str(char *s [, int length])` - Returns the string pointed to by `s`
- `printf(char *fmt, ...)` - Print formatted to stdout
- `print(@x[, int top [, int div]])` - Print a map, with optional top entry count and divisor
- `clear(@x)` - Delete all key/values from a map
- `sym(void *p)` - Resolve kernel address
- `usym(void *p)` - Resolve user space address
- `ntop(int af, int addr)` - Resolve ip address
- `kaddr(char *name)` - Resolve kernel symbol name
- `uaddr(char *name)` - Resolve user space symbol name
- `reg(char *name)` - Returns the value stored in the named register
- `join(char *arr[])` - Prints the string array
- `time(char *fmt)` - Print the current time
- `system(char *fmt)` - Execute shell command
- `exit()` - Quit bpftrace

See the [Reference Guide](docs/reference_guide.md) for more detail.

## Internals

<center><a href="images/bpftrace_internals_2018.png"><img src="images/bpftrace_internals_2018.png" border=0 width=700></a></center>

bpftrace employs various techniques for efficiency, minimizing the instrumentation overhead. Summary statistics are stored in kernel BPF maps, which are asynchronously copied from kernel to user-space, only when needed. Other data, and asynchronous actions, are passed from kernel to user-space via the perf output buffer.

## License

Copyright 2019 Alastair Robertson

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
