.TH biosnoop 8  "2018-09-11" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
biosnoop.bt \- Block I/O tracing tool, showing per I/O latency. Uses bpftrace/eBPF.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B biosnoop.bt
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a basic block I/O (disk I/O) tracing tool, showing each I/O event along
with the issuing process ID, name, I/O latency, disk, offset and length. This
can be used to investigate disk I/O performance issues. It also outputs the
system time at startup to reference against the TIME field of each output row.

This tool currently works by dynamic tracing of the blk_account*() kernel
functions, which will need updating to match any changes to these functions
in future kernels versions.

Since this uses BPF, only the root user can use this tool.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
CONFIG_BPF and bpftrace.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Trace block I/O events, printing one line per operation:
#
.B biosnoop.bt
.SH FIELDS
.TP
TIME
Time of the I/O completion, in milliseconds since program start.
.TP
COMM
Issuing process name. This often identifies the issuing application process, but I/O may be initiated from kernel threads only.
.TP
PID
Issuing process ID. This often identifies the issuing application process, but I/O may be initiated from kernel threads only.
.TP
DISK
The name of the target disk, be aware that this will generally show the
underlying disk receiving the operation if some kind of translation layer such
as RAID or bcache is used.
.TP
OFFSET
The offset of the I/O operation in bytes.
.TP
LEN
The length of the I/O operation in bytes.
.TP
LAT(ms)
The latency of the I/O operation in milliseconds (ms).
.SH OVERHEAD
Since block device I/O usually has a relatively low frequency (< 10,000/s),
the overhead for this tool is expected to be negligible. For high IOPS storage
systems, test and quantify before use.
.SH SOURCE
This is from bpftrace.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bpftrace
.PP
Also look in the bpftrace distribution for a companion _examples.txt file containing
example usage, output, and commentary for this tool.

This is a bpftrace version of the bcc tool of the same name. The bcc tool
provides more fields.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bcc
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Brendan Gregg
Trent Lloyd
.SH SEE ALSO
opensnoop(8)
