.TH setuids.bt 8  "2019-07-05" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
setuids.bt \- Trace setuid family of syscalls. Uses bpftrace/eBPF.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setuids.bt
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool traces privilege escalation via setuid syscalls, and can be used
for debugging, whitelist creation, and intrusion detection.

It works by tracing the setuid(2), setfsuid(2), and retresuid(2) syscalls
using the syscall tracepoints.

Since this uses BPF, only the root user can use this tool.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
CONFIG_BPF and bpftrace.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Trace setuid syscalls:
#
.B setuids.bt
.SH FIELDS
.TP
PID
The calling process ID.
.TP
COMM
The calling process (thread) name.
.TP
UID
The UID of the caller.
.TP
SYSCALL
The syscall name.
.TP
ARGS
The arguments to the syscall
.TP
(RET)
The return value for the syscall: 0 == success, other numbers indicate an
error code.
.SH OVERHEAD
setuid calls are expected to be low frequency (<< 100/s), so the overhead of
this tool is expected to be negligible.
.SH SOURCE
This tool originated from the book "BPF Performance Tools", published by
Addison Wesley (2019):
.IP
http://www.brendangregg.com/bpf-performance-tools-book.html
.PP
See the book for more documentation on this tool.
.PP
This version is in the bpftrace repository:
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bpftrace
.PP
Also look in the bpftrace distribution for a companion _examples.txt file
containing example usage, output, and commentary for this tool.
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Brendan Gregg
.SH SEE ALSO
capable.bt(8)
