.TH ssllatency.bt 8  "2021-12-28" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
ssllatency.bt \- Show SSL/TLS handshake latency histogram. Uses bpftrace/eBPF.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ssllatency.bt
.SH DESCRIPTION
ssllatency shows latency distribution for OpenSSL handshake functions. This is
useful for performance analysis with different crypto cipher suite, async SSL
acceleration by CPU or offload device, etc.

This tool works by dynamic tracing the uprobes in OpenSSL and related crypto
libs, and may need updating to match future changes to these functions.

Since this uses BPF, only the root user can use this tool.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
CONFIG_BPF and bpftrace.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Trace SSL/TLS handshake latency, and print a histogram on Ctrl-C:
#
.B ssllatency.bt
.SH FIELDS
.TP
0th
A function name is shown in "@hist[...]" followed by latency histogram and
"@stat[...]" followed by total call count, average, total latency in
microseconds. Non-zero failed calls are traced separately (in "@histF[]" and
"@statF[]") for some functions.
.TP
1st, 2nd
This is a range of latency, in microseconds (shown in "[...)" set notation).
.TP
3rd
A column showing the count of operations in this range.
.TP
4th
This is an ASCII histogram representing the count column.
.SH OVERHEAD
SSL/TLS handshake usually contains network latency and the traced crypto
functions are CPU intensive tasks, so call frequency should be low and the
overhead of this tool is expected to be negligible.
.SH SOURCE
This is from bpftrace.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bpftrace
.PP
Also look in the bpftrace distribution for a companion _examples.txt file containing
example usage, output, and commentary for this tool.

There is a bcc tool sslsniff that can show SSL/TLS handshake event latency
before sniffing the plaintext in SSL_read/write. This tool provides more
detailed crypto latency distribution during the handshake event.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bcc
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Tao Xu
.SH SEE ALSO
sslsnoop.bt(8)
