.TH sslsnoop.bt 8  "2021-12-28" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sslsnoop.bt \- Show SSL/TLS handshake events. Uses bpftrace/eBPF.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sslsnoop.bt
.SH DESCRIPTION
sslsnoop traces OpenSSL handshake functions, and shows latency and return
value. This can be used to analyze SSL/TLS performance.

This tool works by dynamic tracing the uprobes in OpenSSL and related crypto
libs, and may need updating to match future changes to these functions.

Since this uses BPF, only the root user can use this tool.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
CONFIG_BPF and bpftrace.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Trace SSL/TLS handshake events, printing per-line summaries:
#
.B sslsnoop.bt
.SH FIELDS
.TP
TIME(us)
Time of the call completion, in microseconds since program start.
.TP
TID
Thread ID.
.TP
COMM
Process name.
.TP
LAT(us)
Latency of the call, in microseconds.
.TP
RET
Return value of the call.
.TP
FUNC
Function name.
.SH OVERHEAD
SSL/TLS handshake usually contains network latency and the traced crypto
functions are CPU intensive tasks, so call frequency should be low and the
overhead of this tool is expected to be negligible.
.SH SOURCE
This is from bpftrace.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bpftrace
.PP
Also look in the bpftrace distribution for a companion _examples.txt file containing
example usage, output, and commentary for this tool.

There is a bcc tool sslsniff that can show SSL/TLS handshake event latency
before sniffing the plaintext in SSL_read/write. This tool provides more
detailed crypto latency distribution during the handshake event.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bcc
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Tao Xu
.SH SEE ALSO
biosnoop.bt(8)
