.TH submitbioslower 8  "2019-06-25" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
submitbioslower.bt \- Block I/O submission tracing tool, showing I/O latency higher threshold. Uses bpftrace/eBPF.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B submitbioslower.bt
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a disk I/O submission tracing tool. It is showing I/O which submission
latency is higher than a threshold. This can be used to investigate disk I/O
performance issues. This tool shows submission latency for I/O requests, so it is possible to
find latency spike occured before request accounting started.

This tool currently works by dynamic tracing of the submit_bio()
function call and return.

Since this uses BPF, only the root user can use this tool.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
CONFIG_BPF and bpftrace.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Trace block submission I/O events, printing requests which are submitted slower than 1000usec(default):
#
.B submitbioslower.bt
.SH FIELDS
.TP
TIME
Time of the I/O submission finish, in human-readable format HH:MM:SS.
.TP
PID
Issuing process ID. This often identifies the issuing application process, but I/O may be initiated from kernel threads only.
.TP
COMM
Issuing process name. This often identifies the issuing application process, but I/O may be initiated from kernel threads only.
.TP
DEVICE
Device name. This is a device name from an I/O request (struct bio).
.SH OVERHEAD
Since block device I/O usually has a relatively low frequency (< 10,000/s),
the overhead for this tool is expected to be negligible. For high IOPS storage
systems, test and quantify before use.
.SH SOURCE
This is from bpftrace.
.IP
https://github.com/iovisor/bpftrace
.PP
Also look in the bpftrace distribution for a companion _examples.txt file containing
example usage, output, and commentary for this tool.
.SH OS
Linux
.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.
.SH AUTHOR
Aleksei Zakharov
.SH SEE ALSO
submitbioslower(8)
